Support for dataclass and attrs items (#3881)
scrapy/scrapy: docs/topics/items.rst

    its ``__init__`` method.

    :class:`Item` allows defining field names, so that:

    -   :class:`KeyError` is raised when using undefined field names (i.e.
        prevents typos going unnoticed)

    -   :ref:`Item exporters <topics-exporters>` can export all fields by
        default even if the first scraped object does not have values for all
        of them

    :class:`Item` also allows defining field metadata, which can be used to
    :ref:`customize serialization <topics-exporters-field-serialization>`.

    :mod:`trackref` tracks :class:`Item` objects to help find memory leaks
    (see :ref:`topics-leaks-trackrefs`).

    :class:`Item` objects also provide the following additional API members:

    .. automethod:: copy

    .. automethod:: deepcopy

    .. attribute:: fields

        A dictionary containing *all declared fields* for this Item, not only
        those populated. The keys are the field names and the values are the
        :class:`Field` objects used in the :ref:`Item declaration
        <topics-items-declaring>`.

.. _custom-items:

Custom items
------------

Subclass :class:`BaseItem` to define additional item types not based on any of
the above:

> .. autoclass:: scrapy.item.BaseItem

Author: @Gallaecio @kmike I wonder if we should discourage inheriting from `BaseItem`, since it only inherits from `object_ref` and it doesn't provide any additional functionality?

Reviewer: @elacuesta as we discussed today: this makes sense, but it'd be best if we tackle  it separately, and keep BaseItem checks for itemadapter.

Author: I deprecated `BaseItem` in https://github.com/scrapy/scrapy/pull/3881/commits/23c1739965119df3d91f5e288520c8c21e86312e, do you think it would be too much out of the scope of this PR? Opening a new PR would be fine too, I just think it'd be good to have it deprecated in 2.2 instead of waiting a new full version bump.

Author: Moved to a separate PR: #4534

   :synopsis: Item and Field classes

The main goal in scraping is to extract structured data from unstructured
sources, typically, web pages. :ref:`Spiders <topics-spiders>` may return the
extracted data as `items`, Python objects that define key-value pairs.

Scrapy supports :ref:`multiple types of items <item-types>`. When you create an
item, you may use whichever type of item you want. When you write code that
receives an item, your code should :ref:`work for any item type
<supporting-item-types>`.

.. _item-types:

Item Types

> ==========

Reviewer: I think it'd be nice to show how to define each item type. Currently there is only an example for Item, and it is in a separate section.

Author: Done in 2b2791a7343b9d849c3266be9af2311acade491c

    :mod:`trackref` tracks :class:`Item` objects to help find memory leaks
    (see :ref:`topics-leaks-trackrefs`).

    :class:`Item` objects also provide the following additional API members:

    .. automethod:: copy

    .. automethod:: deepcopy

    .. attribute:: fields

        A dictionary containing *all declared fields* for this Item, not only
        those populated. The keys are the field names and the values are the
        :class:`Field` objects used in the :ref:`Item declaration
        <topics-items-declaring>`.

.. _dataclass-items:

Dataclass objects
-----------------

.. versionadded:: 2.2

:func:`~dataclasses.dataclass` allows defining item classes with field names,
so that :ref:`item exporters <topics-exporters>` can export all fields by
default even if the first scraped object does not have values for all of them.

Dataclasses also allow defining the type and default value of each defined
field.

.. note:: Field names and types are not enforced at run time.

They work natively in Python 3.7 or later, or using the `dataclasses
backport`_ in Python 3.6.

.. _dataclasses backport: https://pypi.org/project/dataclasses/

.. _attrs-items:

> Attr.s objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attr.s objects
```

--------------

.. versionadded:: 2.2

:func:`attr.s` allows defining item classes with field names,
so that :ref:`item exporters <topics-exporters>` can export all fields by
default even if the first scraped object does not have values for all of them.

> `attr.s` also allow defining the type and default value of each defined field.

Reviewer: Is field metadata supported for attr.s and dataclasses?

Author: Yes it is! https://github.com/scrapy/itemadapter#metadata-support

Reviewer: I think it counts as a feature of a particular item type; it'd be nice to mention it.

Author: Done in 2b2791a7343b9d849c3266be9af2311acade491c

> .. note:: Field names and types are not enforced at run time.

Reviewer: I _think_ you can have it by defining a class with `@attr.s(slots=True)`

Author: I don't really know, but I can test it and see what happens. Let's summon @Gallaecio, who authored this particular change, in case he can provide some insight.

Author: For the record, it doesn't seem like `slots=True` enforces types. Also, I couldn't find relevant information at https://www.attrs.org/en/stable/examples.html#types.

```python
In [1]: import attr 
   ...: @attr.s(slots=True) 
   ...: class AttrsItem: 
   ...:     name = attr.ib(type=str, metadata={"serializer": str}) 
   ...:     value = attr.ib(type=int, metadata={"serializer": int}) 
   ...:

In [2]: AttrsItem(name=999, value="not-an-int")
Out[2]: AttrsItem(name=999, value='not-an-int')
```

Reviewer 2: Well, at least they enforce the names, as `Item` does.

What about removing the note from there and refactoring the first list item above as follows?

```
* Define the type and default value of each defined field.

  Use :term:`slotted classes` so that an :exc:`AttributeError` exception
  is raised when using undefined field names (i.e. prevent typos 
  going unnoticed).

  .. note:: Field types are not enforced at run time.

* Define custom field `metadata`_, which can be used to
  :ref:`customize serialization <topics-exporters-field-serialization>`.
```

Notes:
- This requires adding `attr.s` to the InterSphinx mapping.
- I’m not sure if `` :term:`slotted classes` `` will work right away. It may require to prefix the term with the `attr.s` InterSphinx alias, e.g. `` :term:`attrs:slotted classes` ``
- Since we are adding `attr.s` to the InterSphinx mapping, we should use it for the metadata link as well, maybe also the main link (point to https://www.attrs.org/en/stable/index.html, `` :doc:`attrs:index` ``).

Author: I changed the note to "Field types are not enforced at run time". I actually think this note might not be necessary in general, because it's not a Scrapy characteristic. I left it for `dataclasses` but removed the `attrs` one, which doesn't even mention types.
I don't think we need to mention slotted classes, that's not specific to Scrapy but to `attrs`. The links to the upstream docs should be enough IMHO.

    :ref:`customize serialization <topics-exporters-field-serialization>`.

    :mod:`trackref` tracks :class:`Item` objects to help find memory leaks
    (see :ref:`topics-leaks-trackrefs`).

    :class:`Item` objects also provide the following additional API members:

    .. automethod:: copy

    .. automethod:: deepcopy

    .. attribute:: fields

        A dictionary containing *all declared fields* for this Item, not only
        those populated. The keys are the field names and the values are the
        :class:`Field` objects used in the :ref:`Item declaration
        <topics-items-declaring>`.

Example::

    from scrapy.item import Item, Field

    class CustomItem(Item):
        one_field = Field()
        another_field = Field()

.. _dataclass-items:

Dataclass objects
-----------------

.. versionadded:: 2.2

:func:`~dataclasses.dataclass` allows defining item classes with field names,
so that :ref:`item exporters <topics-exporters>` can export all fields by
default even if the first scraped object does not have values for all of them.

Additionally, ``dataclass`` items also allow to:

* define the type and default value of each defined field.

> * define custom `field metadata`_, which can be used to
>   :ref:`customize serialization <topics-exporters-field-serialization>`.
> 
> .. note:: Field names and types are not enforced at run time.
> 
> They work natively in Python 3.7 or later, or using the `dataclasses
> backport`_ in Python 3.6.
> 
> .. _field metadata: https://docs.python.org/3/library/dataclasses.html#dataclasses.field

Reviewer 2: What about this to avoid non-InterSphinx links to the Python documentation?

```suggestion
* define custom field metadata through :func:`dataclasses.field`, which can be used to
  :ref:`customize serialization <topics-exporters-field-serialization>`.

.. note:: Field names and types are not enforced at run time.

They work natively in Python 3.7 or later, or using the `dataclasses
backport`_ in Python 3.6.

```

.. _dataclasses backport: https://pypi.org/project/dataclasses/

Example::

    from dataclasses import dataclass

    @dataclass
    class CustomItem:
        one_field: str

>         another_field: int

Reviewer 2: Maybe we could include a `field` usage example here?

Author: I think we should only include a minimal example. If we included a `field` example, we should include more complex examples for `attrs` as well, and it's out of the scope of Scrapy to explain how to use `dataclasses` and `attrs`. Also, these dataclass fields are only used within Scrapy for metadata, and the docs about metadata point to the `dataclasses.field` function.
